.. title:: Dojo Project Status

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/header.html

Current Efforts
-------------------

0.2
*********************
- Improves upon the features shipped in 0.1.x
- Refactoring of the widget and namespace systems
- Refactored widget system inheritance model
- Automated documentation generation
- Improved build system to allow for more familiar usage
- Support <connect /> and <propset /> elements
- Improve widgets shipped in 0.1

0.1
*********************
- 0.1.0 released on 2005/08/29
- The 0.1.x releases are bug-fixes for the 0.1 branch
- Highlights for the 0.1.x line:
    * transparent package system
    * `dojo.io`_ package
    * `dojo.event`_ package
    * animation system with pre-built effects
    * drag-and-drop system
    * widget system
    * portable WYSIWYG rich text editing widget
    * combo-box ("live search") widget
    * date-picker widget

Status
------------------------

Dojo is under heavy development. We have finished a significant portion of the
core "plumbing" for the project. Widgets are under development by multiple open
source and commercial efforts, and many of these are being contributed back to
the community. Dojo has been successfully deployed in mutliple commercial
products including Jot and Renkoo.

More details are available in the `Dojo Roadmap`_

Releases
------------------------

Dojo 0.1.0 was released on 2005/08/29. Multiple profile builds were made
available at that time. New builds of these profiles are made available nighty
at http://archive.dojotoolkit.org/

No release date has been set for new releases on the 0.1.x line or for 0.2.0,
but this document will be updated when new release dates are planned.

Code Checkins
----------------

A complete list of checkins may be found through our `checkins mailing list`_

Getting Involved
------------------------

If you would like to contribute to the Dojo project, please contact us through
the `dojo interest mailing list`_.

License
-------

Dojo is licensed under the very friendly `Academic Free License v 2.1`_. Some
`thoughts on the AFL license`_.

Dojo Foundation
---------------

Dojo is a California nonprofit corporation.  We're currently working on 
mundane details like bylaws and tax exemption status.


.. FIXME: insert correct urls, and additional urls to make this more useful

.. _`checkins mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-checkins/
.. _`dojo interest mailing list`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/pipermail/dojo-interest/
.. _`Dojo Roadmap`: http://www.dojotoolkit.org/docs/projectRoadmap.html
.. _`dojo.io` : http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`dojo.event` : http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/dojo_event_system.html
.. _`Anonymous SVN access` : http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Academic Free License v 2.1` : http://opensource.org/licenses/afl-2.1.php
.. _`thoughts on the AFL license` : http://netwindows.org/pipermail/ng-dhtml_netwindows.org/2005-January/000643.html

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/sidebar.html

:Author: Alex Russell,Dylan Schiemann
:Version: 0.4
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/03/21

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
