.. title:: Dojo 0.1.0 Release Notes

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/header.html

Introduction
------------

Dojo 0.1.0 is the first full release of Dojo by the Dojo Foundation. It has
been a year in development, and we believe that even in it's 0.1 state, Dojo is
the best tool for building dynamic web application interfaces.

Since this is the first public release, the closed bugs will not be listed in
these notes, but they can be viewed in the projects `bug tracker`_.

Highlights
----------
- A mature, easy to use, and well tested `IO abstraction layer`_. 
- A unified `event system`_. With Dojo, you stop worrying about what is a DOM Node
  and what isn't. You just `connect()`.
- A capable, flexible `widget system`_ that degrades gracefully be default and
  allows end-to-end markup-based development. Dojo widgets give you fast
  prototyping capabilities and transparent support for deployment-time
  optimization.
- Package and build systems that work together to  make developing large
  applications easier and deploying them straightforward. No more
  head-scratching when it comes to optimizing for deployment.
- Animation and effects packages that are second to none. Using Dojo's
  animation packages, you do everything from creating complex path based
  animations to smoothly fading out parts of your pages. Most of the effects
  can be kicked off with a single line of code.
- Drag and Drop support that doesn't cut corners. Dojo's Drag and Drop APIs do
  the right thing and let you plug your own behaviors in. Build apps with drag
  and drop, not lists.
- A *stable*, cross-browser inline WYSIWYG editor component. What point are
  features if your editor crashes the browser?
- A combo-box (nee, "live search") widget
- A date-picker widget

And there's even more in this release. From functional-style programming
constructs (`dojo.alg` and `dojo.lang`) to a normalizing markup-to-JavaScript
parser, Dojo is packed full of goodies.

Details
-------
- package system functional
- build system use of package system working
- pakcage and build systems WILL change in 0.2 or 0.3 to allow for
  sub-directory "rollups" and development outside of the Dojo directory root
- renderer-specific module loading via package system functional
- dojo.hostenv apis ported for Rhino and Browser
- other dojo.hostenv implementations in varying states of repair
- dojo.render available for platform detection
- dojo.alg functional and tested, will likley be unified with dojo.lang in future release
- dojo.lang functional and tested, likely to be merged w/ dojo.alg in the future
- dojo.event.connect implemented and tested
- dojo.event.topic implemented and tested
- dojo.event.browser implemented and integrated with dojo.event.connect
- dojo.event.browser correctly handles node attribute stripping on IE to prevent memory leaks
- dojo.logging implemented and tested, but no highly uesful logging handlers have been implemented
- dojo.text implements minimal text processing functionality
- dojo.graphics implements only what is needed for the htmlEffects package
- dojo.grpahics.htmlEffects includes a large set of easy-to-use transitions, will continue to be expanded in future releases
- dojo.xml implements generic DOM functions as well as HTML utilities
- dojo.xml.Parse implements the first-pass Dojo parser
- dojo.uri implemented and tested
- dojo.math implements curve and point calculations for animation packages
- dojo.io.bind functional for XMLHTTP requests, iframe fallback not implemented yet
- dojo.io.bind handles forward and back buttons correctly
- dojo.io.bind serializes forms for both GET and POST reuqests
- dojo.io.cookies completed
- dojo.io.RepubsubIO transport class not functional yet
- dojo.widget has been implemented and is tested for HTML environments
- dojo.widget.Widget inheritance hierarchy WILL change in 0.2
- dojo.webui has been DEPRECATED in favor of dojo.widget and will be REMOVED in 0.2
- dojo.collections implemented but untested. Use at your own risk.
- dojo.reflect implemented but untested. Use at your own risk.
- dojo.undo is NOT implemented
- dojo.crypto is NOT implemented
- dojo.datetime is NOT implemented
- dojo.props is NOT implemented

Upgrade Guidelines
------------------

This is the intial release. Users of Dojo HEAD likely know what changes are
required for their environments. In the future, this section will hold
information about API deprecation, porting guidelines, and other changes that
may be required to keep an application functional in a new release of Dojo.

API Stability
-------------

This is an initial release with a "0.x.0" version number. We make no claims for
forward-looking API stability on the main line. Things WILL change. See the
Dojo bug tracker for details on anticipated changes.

Known Issues
------------

See the Dojo bug tracking system:

http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/

Distributions
-------------

Multiple profile builds of this release are available from:

http://dojotoolkit.org/download/

About The Author
----------------

Alex Russell, a core contributor to Dojo, can be reached at
<alex@dojotoolkit.org>. His blog is at: http://alex.nWidgets.com

.. _`IO abstraction layer`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/intro_to_dojo_io.html
.. _`event system`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/dojo_event_system.html
.. _`widget system`: http://dojotoolkit.org/docs/fast_widget_authoring.html
.. _`bug tracker`: http://dojotoolkit.org/trac/report/6
.. _`Dojo's Source`: http://dojotoolkit.org/svn/dojo/
.. _`Dojo Status`: http://dojotoolkit.org/projectStatus.html
.. _`The Dojo Wiki`: http://dojo.jot.com/

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/sidebar.html

Dojo 0.1.0 Release Notes
================================

:Author: Alex Russell
:Version: 0.1
:Copyright: Dojo Foundation, 2005
:Date: 2005/08/30

.. contents::

.. raw:: html
   :file: website/rest_template/footer.html

.. vim:ts=4:et:tw=0:shiftwidth=4:
